Okay so,
finally at the end of
this chapter.
I would call a little bit boring
but that doesn't mean that
it's not important.
Anyway.
At the end of this chapter
just a short lesson.
There's a comma operator and
there are some dangers
that are inherent with it.
So we need to be careful
with that.
So, let's go ahead and
do this.
if and we can
should probably
declare x
and y.
So, int
x, I don't know
equals 1, I don't know,
and y
shall be
equal to
3, okay.
So, for example.
if we
state
that x
is
greater than 4.
By the way in case I didn't mention,
you can also declare
variables like this.
Like int 10 in 1 line
and declare as many as you want.
Also you can also go into
next line but I've shown that.
So if x is greater than 4,
and then you put a comma,
and they you say y
is greater than 1.
Now you shall go ahead
and type in
std
::
cout
something,
I don't know.
std
::
endl
;
So this is not
what the user imagined
in the first place.
This will actually
be true.
So x is greater than 4
and
y is
greater than
1 but
I mean
that is as it
should be but I've placed
some pretty bad values.
But anyway, what I wanted to
tell you
is whenever y
as for example, greater than 1
is true,
regardless of the value x
this will
actually be true regardless
of the x.
The entire
expression will evaluate it true.
I will show you that in a moment
when I change the values.
So comma operator evaluates
everything from left to right
and then returns to result
of the last evaluation.
So, let's say that x is
greater than 4.
Is 2 greater than 4?
No, it is not.
y is
equal to 3. So,
is 3 greater than 1?
Yes, it is.
But there is a comma.
But not both of these
conditions have been satisfied.
And if I, it's going to print out
onto the screen if I run this.
It says, something
...
So it evaluates to true.
But perhaps not the way
you thought it would.
It goes from left to right,
so it
does that.
But then, it only takes the
last segment.
The last thing that was evaluated
and based upon that
makes it conclusion.
It's like
the rest doesn't matter.
So that's one of the
dangerous of the comma
operator.
It can be very trick.
It can be a cause of
logical errors.
Anyway, let's go ahead and
take a look at an example
that will also print out something.
Because, I don't know, we will
set the
y to equal to
I don't know.
Let's say to 5.
And that is
going to also be
greater than 1.
And
I don't know we don't actually
need to change anything else.
It doesn't really matter
and I probably didn't need
to even change this.
But due to my notes, I did.
Now if we go ahead and type
something like this.
2 is greater than 4.
Yes? No.
Of course not. 2 is not
greater than 4.
And if we state that y
is greater than 1,
this will still evaluate to true.
Because y is greater than
1.
And this will again be
printed out onto the screen.
Let me just go ahead and show you.
Due to the way it is
evaluated.
The correct way
of doing this would be to
remove comma
from this completely
and use an && sign
depending on what you want to do.
So when I run this, this is now
not going to be printed out
onto the screen as you can
see here.
Because this condition is false.
And this one is true.
And both need to be true
for the and.
to be evaluated
as true in a,
for this entire condition to be
evaluated as true.
Because for and...
you have tables online
you can find them if you want.
For and,
you need
true
true is
evaluated to true.
true
false
false will evaluate to
I don't know, again there's
3rd and final one,
so,
actually not the final one.
false
false true will be
false as well
and of course
false
false will be
So if,
if you have
true true then it's true. If you have
true false then it's false.
If it's false true then it's false.
And so on and so forth
so you can find these tables
on the net for and,
for not for
or
etc. For as many of them as
you want.
So here we have
false
and
true
and ampersand sign here
meaning that this condition
will be
evaluated to,
this will be evaluated to
false.
And therefore this will not be
printed out onto the screen.
So I just wanted to make
a quick tutorial
by the end of this
and show you
and show you how this
actually works.
There was just
one more small
thing that I want to show you but
I don't actually need to write
any code for it. I can just write
pseudo code so you
can see it.
If I type in for example
if
and I don't know some
condition A here.
And
if I type in
some code, okay.
some code
If I type in
else
down below
I can
I don't know, else if,
actually I can also type in
I don't know some condition
B
and I open them up.
So in here where some
code goes,
I can also place another
if statement.
else statement.
Or I can
place another series
of else if statements.
And I can nest them in one
another as much as I
want.
So if I type in
if, for example,
C
and
some
code again
else if
I don't know, not
C whatever
Can type in
again
some
code, etc.
So you see,
you can nest them
as much as you want
pretty much. As many
conditions as you need to test out.
You can test out in this fashion
without any,
without any problems really.
In fact,
once we get to like
complex code,
writing and
complex programming,
advance programming techniques
you will see that
we will deal with a lot of
nesting of
I don't know, loops, conditions,
etc.
But until then,
I bid you farewell
and a ton load of luck.
I shall see you, hopefully,
in the next chapter.